$Id$
The Three Portions of FreeCOM
	-- 2001/08/21 ska

FreeCOM consists of three main portions:

1- the modules -- which are partially described in CMT9.TXT;
2- the Initialization Unit, and
3- the Work unit.

=== Design

The modules are out-sourced code and data intended to be shareb among
various instances of FreeCOM, the most important ones are the static
context and the ^Break and Critial Error handlers.

The current implementation (v0.82) is one single program that includes
code to initialize the FreeCOM run-time environment, such as to load
the modules into memory, parse the command line etc., and code, that
performs to prompt the user, parses and interpretes the input and
executes batch scripts etc. pp.

After initialization an huge part of the code is no longer required to
perform the functionality of FreeCOM, furthermore when FreeCOM runs
in non-Swapping mode the memory is certainly wasted; also, although
not so important, resources are wasted in Swapping mode, too, as this
code must be loaded into memory with each swap and, if swapped to
XMS, EMS or something like that, memory is wasted therein as well.

Therefore FreeCOM gets broken into three components:

1- The modules (that are more or less free-standing pieces of code anyway)
2- The Initialization unit
3- The Work unit

=== The Initialization Unit

The duty of this portion is to "make the bed" (aka setup the environment)
the Work unit requires to run, this includes:

a) parse and interprete the command line passed into FreeCOM,
b) search for and attach to or load the particularily required modules,
c) create the static context (aka Stub module) and setup the global
	flags, values therein,
d) create the dynamic context inheriting default values from parent
	FreeCOM instances, and, finally,
e) setup and configure the modules so that the Work unit can be loaded
	into memory.

After that the Initialization unit is going to pass control to the
Work unit. There are two possible ways however:

Way #1: Swapping enabled

The static context (aka Stub module) already contains all necessary
code to load the Work unit into memory and pass control to it.
All the initialization unit has to do is to pass the control to
the particular piece of code.

Way #2: Swapping disabled

When swapping is disabled, the Work unit remains in memory persistently,
hence the Stub module contains no code to load it. In this case, the
Intialization unit loads and activates the Work unit itself.

=== The Work Unit

When the Work unit gets activated, it assumes to run in its required
environment, the only check is made for the static context and, from
its information, the dynamic context and the current execution state
is determined. The Work unit assumes that all modules are in-place
and well configured otherwise.

If the static context is absent, the Work unit dies with a fatal error.

If the dynamic context is absent, corrupted or otherwise not useable,
a new one is created with default values, the primary state is
assumed by the "canexit" global flag:

+ If canexit == false --> entering KEEP_RUNNING state;
+ otherwise --> pushing TERMINATE, then entering INTERACTIVE status.

No values or settings are inherited.

The parent process of the Work unit is the static context always,
depending on the Swap mode the particular code varies:

+ In non-Swapping mode, if the Work unit terminates, a very rudimentary
Respawner module gets activated that checks the return value for
"TERMINATE SESSION" and verifies that the session may be terminated,
e.g. by checking that the global flag "canexit" is true.

If so, the session terminates by terminating the static context
via DOS-4C -- where it is assumed that the Work unit dis-attached
all modules and, if they are not used (shared) by other FreeCOM
instances, had been mark to be owned by the static context in order
those memory blocks are de-allocated as well.

Otherwise, which would occure when the /P switch was enabled most
probably, the static context enters an infinite requesting the user
to reboot the system. It would be helpful in such case to respawn
FreeCOM, but in order to spare as much memory as possible and the
chances are very low -- only on fatal failures of FreeCOM's Work
unit -- that this happens, the code is removed.

+ In Swapping mode, the exit code of the Work unit causes the
Respawner module to:

- invoke an external program,
- initiate an user negotionation about which FreeCOM to load,
- reload the Work unit of FreeCOM, or
- terminate the FreeCOM session.

If the session is about to be terminated, but this option is forbidden,
e.g. the global flag "canexit" is false, a warning message is issued
and the Work unit is respawned.

If to respawn the Work unit fails, the Respawner module skips to
the negotionation; if this fails, too, the session is terminated;
if terimation is forbidden, the session hangs infinitely.

=== Projected Layout of the FreeCOM Executable

The Initialization unit forms the firstmost part of the FreeCOM
executable. It is an EXE type program, which allows to attach as many
arbitary information to the program; .COM type programs may have
problems, when instead of loading the very first 64KB of the program
image only as done by MS DOS all of the executable is to be loaded into
memory. At one hand, this is not necessary and on the other hand this
might cause unnecessary out-of-memory conditions.

Doing so implicitly forces the correct behaviour in all circumstances,
e.g. when FreeCOM is invoked directly from a FreeCOM's command line.

Doing so may run into the problem that using LH or SHELLHIGH loads the
Initialization unit into upper memory, although, it is an intermediate
piece of code only that will not remain resident.

At the end of the EXE-type file of the Initialization unit of FreeCOM a
number of data blocks -- the resources -- are attached, among them are
the modules, the String resource and the Work unit.

If the Work unit is just a plain .COM-like program image, no further
preprocessing is required, otherwise, the .EXE-type program format
is broken up into pieces and re-ordered so that all relevant information
may be read in sequence; usually that would mean:
- lowest address
	+ header information
		++ length of program image
		++ length of additional information
		++ minimal/maximal memory block to load the program to (*)
	+ program image (excluding the PSP)
	+ additional information
		++ number of relocation positions
		++ relocaton positions
		++ initial values of registers, incl. CS:IP and SS:SP.
- highest address
(*) Regardless of the "maximum" value the allocated memory block
	will be large enough to hold both the program image and the
	additional information initially.
