Description of implementation of shared modules
	-- 2000/10/29 ska

FreeCOM requires the following actions for modules:
A1: attach to all already loaded modules,
A2: preload dummy modules,
A3: load modules from resource file,
A4: detach from modules,
A5: aquire MIB of a specific module, and
A6: not required, but helpful: aquire the "attach" status of a module.

No module is attached to multiple times. The current implementation
would need multiple attaches within the same copy of FreeCOM only under
circumstances of module Stub.

Module Stub provides the space to hold the static context of the resident
portion of FreeCOM and the stubs to the other modules, esp. Criter and
CBreak. Insofar, Stub depends on the other modules and the implementation
would need to multiply attach to some modules.

However, Stub has two different functions within FreeCOM to offer the
context and to offer the stubs. Now FreeCOM has also two modes accessing
Stub:

a) when FreeCOM is re-spawned and during the run-time and shutdown of
FreeCOM, the context is read/written/updated;
b) during startup of a new copy of FreeCOM, Stub is loaded into memory,
the context is initialized and the stubs are configured to refer to
the code shared by the other modules.

That means that during mode "a)" the view FreeCOM has of Stub does not
depend on any module, but Stub can be considered a stand-alone module.

That leaves the time when a new Stub is created or a Stub is removed.
In fact, not FreeCOM depends on the dependency of Stub to the other
modules, but the resident Stub itself. That means that after the other
modules are loaded into memory, their link count is incremented, what will
thereafter be interpreted as that two instead of one processes depend on
these modules. This view is also true, because Stub will represent FreeCOM
as its resident portion and is by all means of the OS its own, free-standing
process.

===

Action A1 is required to find all shared modules within memory and to attach
to them. It also provides the mechanism to attach to the context and find
the parent's context in order to inherit settings from it.
In conjunction with A3 this action implements a load-and-attach-to action.

Action A2 is required to install dummy functions required during the
startup process, when the location of the resource file is not known, thus,
it is not possible to retreive any missing modules from it.

Action A3 is required in order to provide modules at all. It is accompanied
A1 to implement the load-and-attach-to action.

Action A4 is required to detach from shared modules, thus, to orderly
tread the link count of them, and thereby to know when to remove the
module from memory. A4 includes the action to remove the module from
memory, which may be more complex than to simply deallocate the memory
the module is located in.

Action A5 is required to actually access data stored within a module or
the code of the module.

Action A6 is recommended for optimization purpose, as it is possible to
skip action A3 if all the modules are already attached to. As it is partially
implemented within A5, this action is merged with A5.

===


