$Id$
Respawner and Loader Module
	-- 2001/08/20 ska

The Respawner module provides shared code to:
1. execute an external program,
2. spawn FreeCOM, and
3. some error catching and reporting functionality.

It is completed by the FreeCOM Loader module (see below).

=== Design

A FreeCOM instance does not execute external program directly, but
handles this request via the Respawner module. Hereby, FreeCOM is
preparing all information and ensures syntacical and semantical
correctness of the request; those preparations are storred in the
context of the FreeCOM instance.

Per design the Work unit of FreeCOM is the child process of its own
context, which is a process (e.g. with its own PSP), too.
After preparations the Work unit terminates with a certain exit code.
Upon termination the parent process -- aka the context, and thereby
the Respawner module -- gets active.

First, the Respawner module checks the exit code of the last FreeCOM
instance, it can be one of:
a) TERMINATE SESSION
	to terminate the currently active FreeCOM session.
	If the global flag "can_exit" is false, this request is denied and
	either FreeCOM is restarted or the Respawner module hangs forever.
b) CALL EXTERNAL PROGRAM
	to execute an external program.
	see below
c) RESPAWN FREECOM
	to directly respawn the Work unit of FreeCOM.
	see below
d) else
	it is assumed that the Work unit of FreeCOM aborted upon failure.
	After displaying an appropriate error message FreeCOM is
	respawned as in variant c).

When CALL EXTERNAL PROGRAM had been returned, the Respawner module
aquires the already prepared information for API function DOS-4B-00
from the context and performs the call.
Upon its return, the return value and/or the program's exit code is
saved into the context and FreeCOM is respawned.

To RESPAWN FREECOM, firstly all available memory is claimed and a new
child process is prepared there.
Secondly, the Respawner module aquires from the context which
Loader module is capable of loading the Work unit of FreeCOM into memory;
this module is called.
Thirdly, the invoked Loader module loads a COM-type program image into
the newly prepared memory from whatever storage location. This process
might return one of following return codes:
a) TERMINATE SESSION (as above),
b) RESPAWN FREECOM (as above), or
c) Proceed (to advance to step four below).
Fourly, the Respawner module passes control to the child process.

The newly created and filled child process may contain:
a) the Work unit of FreeCOM, in which case FreeCOM is now active
	again and can perform its work.

b) another loader.
	If the process to load the Work unit of FreeCOM becomes pretty
	complex, a second loader can be placed between the Respawner
	module and the Work unit of FreeCOM in order to reduce the complexity
	and, mainly, to reduce the size of the Loader module.

	This loader might include an EXE relocator or provide functionality
	to load programs larger than 64KB.

	The loader must return the same exit code as the Work unit, which
	had been loaded and executed by it.


When the Work unit of FreeCOM terminates, the process may start over and
over again, until the FreeCOM session is terminated or some fatal error
occurs.
