Description of layout of COMMAND.COM image
	-- 2000/07/11 ska


General layout:
+ start of file at file offset 0
+ COMMAND.EXE : This is the product of the actual MAKE run or
	however the FreeCOM executable was generated.
	Usually this is in EXE format
+ some compiler/linker depend stuff, e.g. debug information
+ any number of modularized resources (see below)
+ end of file at topmost offset

Resources:
Til now only one type of resource was known to FreeCOM, though, due to
the introduction of the external Critical Error handler a second one
showed up. Therefore it was time to re-organize the way resources are
attached to FreeCOM.

Purpose of resources:
Resources are information of any kind not included into the program
image of FreeCOM. In order to access them they must be manually handled
by FreeCOM.
Examples:
+ Strings (already known since some releases) [data],
+ Critical Error handler [mixture of data and code].

Problems to cope with:
+ FreeCOM should come as a single physically file, that means that all
information must be "archived" together one way or another, but the
result must be an executable file, which invokes a new copy of the
command line interface by default.
+ The more complex the make process is the more problems will show up
and the more possible contributers will be intimidated.

Therefore the resources shall be as free-standing as possible and
easily archived together, but still easily accessable from with
FreeCOM.

Design of resources:
Each resource contructs its own block of data in this format:
+ lowest file offset
+ data of resource			[unlimited]
+ size of "data" portion	[4 bytes]
+ major resource ID			[2 bytes]
+ minor resource ID			[2 bytes]
+ cookie					[8 bytes]
+ highest file offset

The latter 4 entries form the control area of the resource indicating:
+ how much data is included with this resource;
+ what type of resource it is via the resource ID, however, only the
major resource ID is considered by the general resource locator, the
minor ID is reserved for use by the loader specialized for the
particular resource only; and
+ the cookie provides a validation mechanism like the magic number
system. This cookie is the same for all resources throughout FreeCOM
and all control areas with a valid cookies are considered valid themselves.

To place the control area at the end of the resource has one fundamental
disadvantage and one fundamental advantage:
con: It is less efficient than placing it in front of the data, because
files are read sequentially from beginning to the end most efficiently.
pro: Those resources can be created individually into individual files.
To create the desired "archive" the only thing to do is to append
one by another to FreeCOM's executable.

Now the process to locate the resource from inside FreeCOM arises:
If the control area would be located at the beginning of the resource,
there is no fixed way to seek to it, but because the controls are
located behind the data at the end and because resources are appended
to the executable, the control area of the last resources resides at
the end of the file.

This place is easy to seek to.

And because the control area knows the length of the data of the
current resource, it can seek before to the preceeding resource,
if any.

In opposite, to locate a control area at the beginning would require
some algorithm to find the first resource located _somewhere_within_
the file. The current implementation used some fields of the EXE header
describing how much code/data the executable allocates. Unfortunately
.COM files do not include this information and some compilers may
append own information there, e.g. debug information.
One would need sort of management program that keeps track of
where the first resource is located within the executable and writes
this information at a well-known location, e.g. at the end of the file.
The message library MSGLIB includes such program, but although
it is nearly required there, it adds a remarkable step to the complexity
of the process to create a final program file.

Assignments:
Cookie: "FREECOM "

Major resource IDs (hexadecimal):
00: Strings
01: Critial Error handler

Minor resource IDs (hexadecimal):
00:**: none particular, used for version control
01:00: code of the Critical Error handler
01:01: strings used by the handler
01:02: already merged code and strings of the handler as one resource
01:10: code of the "autofail" variant of the handler
01:11: strings used by the "autofail" handler
01:12: already merged code and strings of the "autofail" handler
