Sharing code for modules

Introduction
Layout of shared modules
Purging shared modules
Multitasking issues
Alternate layout
Problematic shared modules
Shared Module: Respawner

=== Introduction

Modules are pieces of code manually loaded into memory and executed
by FreeCOM in order to process some actions. This way this code is
not always present in memory consuming valuable memory.

Some modules, such as the Critical Error handler (aka CRITER), must
be present through the whole lifetime of an instance of FreeCOM,
regardless if the main portion of FreeCOM has been swapped out of
memory or not. Usually, this sort of modules would be installed
residently.

However, the more instances of FreeCOM are loaded the more of those
modules will be residently installed, thus, the same code is loaded
twice or more times, again consuming memory unnecessarily. However,
those particular copies are not 100% the same, because they act upon
different data; for instance:
	Each instance of FreeCOM can be loaded with the /F switch to enable
	the AutoFail feature, in which case CRITER won't display the menu,
	but automatically selecting "Fail" without any user prompt.
	Though, the information wether or not autofail is active may differ
	from instance to instance.

So shared modules do share their code only, but never the data.

In order to let a module process the correct data, various methods
can be thought of:
1) a module is prefixed by a pointer referencing the data the module
is to process.
	Con: Although the normal processing in DOS is linear, which means
	that always the topmost (latest invoked) instance of FreeCOM is
	currently active, thus, is using the module; there are certain
	cases, in which this assumption might fail, especially if some
	clever program bypasses the "normal" DOS ways too much. Another
	(legal) non-linear way to invoke FreeCOM is INT-2E, a sort of
	backdoor into the primary (the firstever invoked) instance of FreeCOM.
	Con 2: If an instance of FreeCOM crashes and the address remains in
	there, the module will process and maybe destroy data of random
	information , maybe already allocated by another process.
2) the address to the data is calculated from the current active PSP.
	Con: When FreeCOM invokes another program, the active PSP points
	to that one; the module would need the walk the MCB chain in order
	to find the parent of the program's process. Though, DOS does
	not usually pay much attention to the process tree, so some program
	might not as well and possibly the process tree becomes corrupted,
	intentionally or not.
3) the module is divided into two parts:
	part 1: the stub, and
	part 2: the function.

	The code of part 1 will be chained into the interrupt or whatever
	it processes and contains as less code as necessary to accept the
	request, save two registers, load two registers with the address
	of the current data, and jump to the code of part 2.
	This stub is duplicated with each instance of FreeCOM, but because
	it shall contain only the smallest possible code, the waste is
	rather acceptable.

Example of a CRITER request:
Each instance of FreeCOM creates its own stub of the CRITER handler and
the data required by CRITER. Each instance chains this stub into the
INT-24 chain; the stub might look like this:
	int24_catcher:
		push es
		push bx
		mov es, SEG criter_data
		mov bx, OFFSET criter_data
		jmp FAR int24_shared_code

On entry of the shared INT24 code the registers ES:BX point to the data
structure processed by the handler; but because each instance has its own
stub, it can easily create a _valid_ address to the data.

=== Layout of shared modules

The function part of shared modules is installed by some (most prossibly
the primary) instance FreeCOM. In order to let other instances know where
they are located, some mechanism to find all function parts must be
implemented.

Method 1: Hail the modules
One could chain all modules into the same interrupt, e.g. MUX-something,
and assign a number to them and on request they return their address.
Well, this requires some overhead, not considerred currently.

Method 2: Chain the modules
All modules can be chained and are identified by some magic cookie.
Though, where will this chain start?

Method 3: Identify modules
As some sort of sub-method of method 2, one can use the well-known
MCB chain. Doing so, one can:
a) load and install each module into its own block of DOS memory, thus,
each module will have its own MCB.
b) use the last 8 bytes of the MCB (name of process, since DOS4) as
magic cookie. 

=== Layout of shared modules

The fundamental design of modules shall be as situation-depend as
necessary, that means that there shall not be any layout _all_ modules
must apply to with the exception of the process of identification and
any data required.

As described above the MCB of the memory block the shared module resides
in will be used to identify the module itself. Due to the tradition of
DOS the lastmost eight bytes do spring in mind very easily.

Those bytes are currently used by PC DOS to store the name of the
executable of MCBs created for a particular program by DOS-4B-00;
system memory blocks are described by the two letters SD (usually
explained as System Data), SC (System Code) and SM (System Memory).
Usually other MCBs do not have no specific name there, but some random
values.

Because the modules are manually loaded by FreeCOM bypassing DOS-4B-00,
these name field should be empty and free to use.

Because the name field is derived from the name of the executable,
the module identificator string should include some character _not_
used as permittable character in filenames, also, it should be
rather impossible to identify invalid modules; there the module ID
has been formatted as follows:
FREECOM\5
Were "\5" is the byte with the value 0x5.

The "\5" makes this ID invalid as filename, so no conflicts may arise
with DOS-4B-00 created MCBs.
The "FREECOM" and the fact that the MCB has been found as a _valid_ item
of the system MCB chain, shall be enough to validate the MCB. In addition,
if such shared module is purged from memory, this ID will overwritten,
currently the "\5" is replaced by "\4".

Each module has a prefixed MIB (Module Identification Block), which is
16 bytes in size, too. This block stores information necessary to
validate and identify a specific module:
Offset	Type	Meaning
0		WORD	major ID
2		WORD	minor ID
4		WORD	version
6		WORD	link count
8		4bytes	reserved for future use
12		DWORD	previous INT value; otherwise reserved
16		<--- start of module internal data/code

See "Purging of shared modules" for more information about further
requirements on the layout.

The additional MIB is 16bytes in size, too, to make the generation of
of modules more easier, because this way they can be created any way
as they are always executed from a paragraphe boundary.

= Code not to be included into shared modules

They should contain the productive code only. No space should be wasted for:
+ hailing this module (except if it chained into MUX),
+ self-uninstallation.
(This list is not complete.)

Instead of hailing the identification through MCB is implemented. FreeCOM
contains black-box functions to hides this fact.

Uninstallation (and installation and initialization) shall be completely
moved into the external program, FreeCOM in this case. The version portion
of the module ID string shall be sufficient to verify, if the external
program is able to handle this module (see below "Different versions of
shared modules").

= Different versions of shared modules

If two FreeCOMs of different built level are used at the same system, it
is possible that the same shared module is loaded more than once. Assume
that FreeCOM F1 contains module #10 in version V4 and FreeCOM F2 includes
the module #10 in version V6.

If F2 is loaded _before_ F1, F1 will never use the module, because it does
not know nothing about the internals of the module V6. However, if F2
is loaded _after_ F1, it does locate module V4 and could decide to re-use
the older one. However, it almost makes no sense to do so, as it would mean
that FreeCOM doesn't use the improvements the new version should include.

In such case multiple modules of the same major ID will be installed into
memory.

=== Purging of shared modules

Because shared modules are no longer associated with one particular "host"
program, it becomes problematic when they can be purged from memory.

One way is to use a link count: Each time a program hooks into the module,
an integer is incremented; each time a program unhooks from the module, the
same intefer is decremented and if it reaches 0 (zero), it is removed from
memory. (i-node style implementation)
One possible problem is when a program crashes and cannot decrement the
value, thus, the module is never purged.

Another way is to link all users of a moule into one chain of some sort.
Same problem as above, may even lead to hazardeous destruction if the chain
invalidly points into already re-used memory.

A third implementation focuses on the same implementation
as the modules are identified themselves. Here, each program that hooks any
of the shared modules must identify itself through the MCB and contain
an internal list of which modules it hooks to.
This would support if a program crashes and, thereby, was unable to unhook
itself from a shared module, however, it adds a remarkable amount of
complexity to all the process.

Chains in any form won't help much, because a crashing program would also
leave behind a corrupted chain.

= Current implementation

However, because the latter implementation is far from easy and 
looking at the multitasking issues could lead to quite a lot work,
the current implementation focusses on the link-count style method.

=== Multitasking issues

In DOS multitasking is often no issue, however, TSRs, device drivers
and INT-2E could be interpreted as multitasking; at least they break
the linear processing bestowed on DOS often. Also, TSRs could intervent
a going update operation. Especially the third method of purging the
modules is a relatively longtime operation.

Therefore, each program actively working on a module has to "lock" the
module.

A locked module effectively hides this module from any access of other
programs, which can then decide if to:
+ pause their operation,
+ cancel their operation, or
+ install a new copy od the module.

However, due to the nature of shared modules to contain code only, the
only reason to lock a module is that it is going to be installed or
purged at that time.

A module is locked, when the "\5" is actually a "\6" or above.

The recommended code to lock a module is:

byte far * p;

p = address_of_\5;
if(++*p != '\6') {
	--*p;
	/* The module has been locked already by another process */
	/* do something to handle this condition here, NOT above */
} else {
	/* Do the stuff with the module */
	--*p;
}


=== Alternate layout

The 16byte MIB may look like a waste of resources (memory). What are the
alternatives?

A1: Join MCB and MIB

The MCB has 11 bytes which are more or less free to use:
8 bytes for the name and 3 bytes RBIL describes with:
 05h  3 BYTEs   unused by MS-DOS
                (386MAX) if locked-out block, region start/prev region end

When the major ID, minor ID, link count become BYTE, instead of WORD,
they could be merged into the name field, e.g.:
FCOM\5ail
a: major ID (binary), i: minor ID (binary), l: link count (binary).
And the version ID is placed into the three-byte space also used by
386MAX.
sub-variant: The version is integrated into the name field, too, e.g.:
FC\5ailvv
Though, now a validation is little more than a wild guess because of the
small magic cookie (the first two/three bytes).

A2: Place multiple modules into the same MCB

The currently unused 4 bytes of a MIB could be used to include:
size of module (in paragraphes) and type of module.
MIBs would form a chain similiar to the MCBs themselves, however:
The processes to install or purge a module becomes more complicated,
and it seems to be almost impossible to develop an individual module
in a black-box manner.


=== Problematic shared modules

Both the Critical Error handler and the ^Break handler are problematic in
the sense that during the time their modules are loaded from the file
a critical error or ^Break condition can arise. However, it is assumed
that the time between the start of FreeCOM and the installation of the
modules is rather short, that it is acceptable to install dummy handlers:
(1) CRITER will automatically fail, and
(2) ^Break will be ignored.

Maybe (2) is a wrong assumption in conjunction with "/C".

=== Shard Module: Respawner

The Respawner is loop that spawns an external program and, on its exit,
respawns FreeCOM, hence the name. This technique shall free as much memory
as possible to be available to the external program.

The algorithm of the Respawner is rather simple:

10 DOS-4B-00 of an external program using the already prepared FCB1&2, the
	EXEC block and the program's name
20 Wait until the child process dies
30 Aquire the child's exit code and save it into the context of FreeCOM
40 DOS-4B-00 of FreeCOM using the already prepared EXEC block and program's
	name

So it has very limited features and all the remaining actions will be
performed by FreeCOM itself _before_ the Respawner gets activated:

During the initialization:
0 If FreeCOM gets passed a specific condition, goto 1000
1 Resolve FreeCOM's own filename
2 Duplicate the five standard file descriptors (0 through 4)
3 Install the local context as a normal child process of FreeCOM containing
	its own PSP
4 Patch the context in that way that it becomes the child of the current
	process's parent and the parent of the current process
5 Copy FreeCOM's filename into the context and the command line to passed
	if it is respawned

On execution of an external program:
100	Interprete command line and resolve pipes, redirections etc.
110	Split the command and its parameters
120	Prepare the command's name, its command line, parse the first two
	arguments into two FCBs, prepare the EXEC block
	All these information is storred into the local context
130	Aquire the names of the redirections, resolve pipes into two redirections
	Open those files as file descriptors (handles)
140	Save all internal variables and status into the context
150 == at this point all pre-requisites seem to be full-filled and the
		command can be called
	Prepare the five standard file descriptors (0 through 4) matching the
	redirections within the context's PSP, otherwise use the saved
	descriptors (see step 2)
160 terminate FreeCOM

On respawning FreeCOM:
1000 Retreive the address of the context (which is the parent process
	of the current process)
1010 Restore the save internal status
1020 Re-enter the input procession loop as though as if FreeCOM had never
	been terminated at all
